---
layout: post
title: "About me"
permalink: /about-me
excerpt: I am a UX researcher who likes to reimagine how things should work – given real-world constraints – and test hypotheses with users. I go beyond mandates to maximize product impact, with a careful attention to detail. I currently work at MathWorks, where I am responsible for designing and conducting user research about various aspects of MATLAB, a software platform for scientists and engineers. Click to read more...
---

I am a UX researcher who likes to (re)imagine how things should work – given real-world constraints – and test hypotheses with users. I go beyond mandates to maximize product impact, with a careful attention to detail.

I currently work at MathWorks, where I am responsible for designing and conducting user research about various aspects of MATLAB, a software platform for scientists and engineers. I partner with over 7 dev. teams and cross-functional partners to make MATLAB easy to use for non-programmers and flexible/powerful enough for developers. Some highlights:
- Spearheaded research activities to improve MATLAB's startup experience:
Interviewed and surveyed 25+ stakeholders and teams to reveal how they influenced MATLAB startup and identified multiple gaps.
Conducted a **mix of moderated and unmoderated usability activities** to study a redesigned startup experience with 70+ users. Uncovered **assumptions that didn't hold true for 60% of users** and evangelized changes across multiple teams.
Establishing it as a repeatable process for other UXers to adopt for testing workflows.
- Performed a heuristic evaluation and **convinced stakeholders** against a redesign by illustrating how it would negatively affect target personas, and suggested viable alternatives.
- Designed new code creation workflows to alleviate multiple pain points and presented vision to senior stakeholders. Coordinated design efforts across disparate teams, **pushing long-standing projects ahead**.

Previously, I was a UX Research intern at Google, where I redesigned how errors look in Flutter to improve readability and eventual task outcomes.

As a graduate student specializing in Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), I worked with Prof. Philip Guo in the Design Lab at UC San Diego, to create scalable user-centered systems to help people learn and do programming. I was also a teaching assistant for multiple HCI courses and conducted lectures for 200+ students. Here is an outline of the different areas of my work:
- **Video interactions**: reimagining interfaces to make programming tutorial screencasts easier to find, navigate and practice with, by extracting source code edits from the raw videos.
- **Error messages**: augmenting the coding-debugging workflow with learning aids when a programmer is stuck and needs help -- among the ways is adapting ELIZA (a chatbot that mimics a psychotherapist) to aid self-reflection.
- **Chatbots**: evaluating the design of a conversational agent for augmenting learn-to-code UIs in place of live help.
- **Permissions**: designing a new model for Android apps that prevents misuse of permissions while reducing interruptions to the user.
